---
layout: post
title: Classification Project
---
This is project takes in a data set on features of colleges. All the data (Instructional_expenditure_per_fte and 5_year_declining_balance in the logistic regression model) are used as explanatory variables to predict the profit status of a college. 
Simultaenously, a simple algorithm is developed to determine the worst schools in accreditation. The data is first scaled to eliminate the effects of the extreme data, so that each selected feature can be evaluated equally. Based on the information above, average family income, branches, faculty salary, instructional expenditure per fte, loan principal, pell grant debt, size, and tuition revenue per fte are the most important features in considering profit status, so these factors are chosen for evaluating worst schools. Because tuition revenue per fte and pell grant debt have negative correlations with profit status, a "-1" is multiplied to their values. The total of the precedent important features are calculated and put to a new column of the dataframe. The top six colleges with the lowest sum of important features are considered to be the worst schools.The data is first scaled to eliminate the effects of the extreme data, so that each selected feature can be evaluated equally. Based on the information above, average family income, branches, faculty salary, instructional expenditure per fte, loan principal, pell grant debt, size, and tuition revenue per fte are the most important features in considering profit status, so these factors are chosen for evaluating worst schools. Because tuition revenue per fte and pell grant debt have negative correlations with profit status, a "-1" is multiplied to their values. The total of the precedent important features are calculated and put to a new column of the dataframe. The top six colleges with the lowest sum of important features are considered to be the worst schools.
